Update Magento Cloud Docker instructions for adding custom PHP extensions (#8145)
magento/devdocs: src/cloud/docker/docker-extend.md

  ```yaml
  version: '2.1'
  services:
    web:
      build:
        context: ./vendor/magento/magento-cloud-docker/images/nginx/1.9/
  ```

To update the container configuration and test iteratively, use the `--force-recreate` option to refresh the container build:

  ```bash
  docker-compose up -d --force-recreate --build
  ```

## Add a new version of existing service

In the `{{site.data.var.mcd-package}}` package, the available [service versions] are determined by the Docker service images configured in the `images` directory. You add a new service version by creating a directory for the version and adding a `Dockerfile` and other files to configure the new version.

{:.procedure}
To add a new service version using a `Dockerfile`:

1. Clone the `{{site.data.var.mcd-package}}` project to your local environment if necessary.

1. On the command line, change to the directory that contains the existing service version configurations.

   ```bash
   cd magento-cloud-docker/images/<service-name>
   ```

1. Create a directory for the new version.

> 1. Using the `Dockerfile` for an existing version as a template, create the `Dockerfile` for the new version in the version directory.  Make sure that the new file contains any additional required configuration details such as supported plugins.

Reviewer: The first sentence is confusing. I would stick with a very simple statement, and then add details in the next sentence or subsection.
Also, you never tell them to change to the new directory. If you carry them into a space, you don't have to explain where to create something. They are already there.

Perhaps something like:
```suggestion
1. Change to the new directory.

1. Create a `Dockerfile` with any additional configuration details for the new version, such as supported plugins. You can use the `Dockerfile` from the previous version as a template.
```

1. Add the `docker-entrypoint.sh` and `healthcheck` files if needed.

1. Add any necessary `.conf` and `.ini` files for the service to the `etc` directory.

> 1. Use the following command to build the image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Build the image.
```

   ```bash
   docker build -t test/<service-name>:<service-version>
   ```

1. After the build succeeds, test the changes by specifying the [Docker build sources].

## Add a new PHP extension

You can add PHP extensions to the PHP container by adding the extension configuration to the [ExtensionResolver.php] configuration file for {{ site.data.var.mcd-prod }}.

{:.procedure}
To add a new PHP extension:

1. Clone the `{{site.data.var.mcd-package}}` project to your local environment.

1. On the command line, navigate to the PHP directory.

   ```bash
   cd magento-cloud-docker/src/Compose/Php
   ```

1. Add one or more extensions to the `ExtensionResolver.php` file:

   -  Open the `ExtensionResolver.php` file for editing.

   -  Specify the required extension in the `getConfig` method by specifying the extension type and dependency.

      For example, the following block adds the `bcmath` extension:

      ```php?start_inline=1
      public static function getConfig(): array
      ...

      'bcmath' => [
          '>=7.0' => [self::EXTENSION_TYPE => self::EXTENSION_TYPE_CORE],
       ],
       ...
      ```
      {:.no-copy}

>       In this case, the `bcmath` PHP core extension installs from `docker-php-source` image.

Author: ```suggestion
      In this case, the `bcmath` PHP core extension installs from `docker-php-source` images.
```

      {:.bs-callout-info}

>       The configuration you specify depends on the location of the extension source files and installation method. You can add PHP core extensions from the official Docker PHP images, from the PECL repository, or using an installation script.  For details on the configuration attributes and format for the `getConfig` method, see [PHP extension configuration reference](#php-extension-configuration-reference).

Reviewer: I think the first sentence, when distilled, may be "...depends on the location(x) and the method(x)".  Right? So, if that is true, then:

```suggestion
      The configuration you specify depends on the location of the extension source files and method of installation. You can add PHP core extensions from the official Docker PHP images, from the PECL repository, or using an installation script. For details on the configuration attributes and format for the `getConfig` method, see [PHP extension configuration reference](#php-extension-configuration-reference).
```

1. Enable the extension by default, or by adding it to the `.magento.app.yaml` file:

   -  To enable an extension by default, add it to the `DEFAULT_PHP_EXTENSIONS` array in the `ExtensionResolver.php` file.

      ```php?start_inline=1

          /**
           * Extensions which should be installed by default
           */
          public const DEFAULT_PHP_EXTENSIONS = [
              'bcmath',
              'bz2',
              'calendar',
              'exif',
              'gd',
              'gettext',
              'intl',
              'mysqli',
              'pcntl',
              'pdo_mysql',
              'soap',
              'sockets',
              'sysvmsg',
              'sysvsem',
              'sysvshm',
              'opcache',
              'zip',
          ];
      ```

>    -  If you add the extension to the `.magento.app.yaml` for your Cloud project, you must regenerate the Docker compose configuration file, and restart the Docker container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   -  If you add the extension to the `.magento.app.yaml` for your Cloud project, you must regenerate the Docker compose configuration file and restart the Docker container.
```

1. Enable the extension by default, or by adding it to the `.magento.app.yaml` file:

   -  To enable an extension by default, add it to the `DEFAULT_PHP_EXTENSIONS` array in the `ExtensionResolver.php` file.

      ```php?start_inline=1

      /**
       * Extensions which should be installed by default
       */
      public const DEFAULT_PHP_EXTENSIONS = [
          'bcmath',
          'bz2',
          'calendar',
          'exif',
          'gd',
          'gettext',
          'intl',
          'mysqli',
          'pcntl',
          'pdo_mysql',
          'soap',
          'sockets',
          'sysvmsg',
          'sysvsem',
          'sysvshm',
          'opcache',
          'zip',
      ];
      ```

   -  If you add the extension to the `.magento.app.yaml` for your Cloud project, you must regenerate the Docker compose configuration file and restart the Docker container.

1. Add any required `.ini` files to the PHP FPM container configuration.

   -  On the command line, navigate to the FPM image directory `magento-cloud-docker/images/php/fpm`:

      ```bash

>       cd  ../../../images/php/fpm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      cd ../../../images/php/fpm
```

1. Test the extension by specifying the [Docker build sources].

### PHP extension configuration reference

> Use the following attributes to specify the PHP extension configuration in the getConfig method located in the [ExtensionResolver.php] file. The configuration you specify depends the extension installation method: from the official Docker PHP images, from the PECL repository, or using an installation script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following attributes to specify the PHP extension configuration in the `getConfig` method located in the [ExtensionResolver.php] file. The configuration you specify depends the extension installation method: from the official Docker PHP images, from the PECL repository, or using an installation script.
```

| Configuration option | Description
| -------------------- | ------------
| PHP version constraint | Specifies the extension versions to install. If different versions have different installation requirements, you must add the configuration for each version.
| `EXTENSION_TYPE_CORE` | Extension that can be installed from a `docker-php-source` image. See [PHP, Docker Official Images] in Docker Hub.

> | `EXTENSION_TYPE_PECL` | Extensions that can be installed from the [PECL] repository. See _PECL extensions_ in the [How to install more PHP extensions][PHP, Docker Official Images] documentation in Docker Hub.

Reviewer: The first thing you see is the PHP heading on that Docker page. Without a useful anchor, it may need to guide readers more carefully. The following suggestion is similar to the next option, too.

```suggestion
| `EXTENSION_TYPE_PECL` | Extensions that can be installed from the [PECL] repository. See **PECL extensions** in the _How to install more PHP extensions_ section of the [PHP, Docker Official Images] page in Docker Hub.
```

| `EXTENSION_TYPE_INSTALLATION_SCRIPT` | For extensions that install using a command sequence. See the _Other extensions_ section on the [PHP, Docker Official Images] page in Docker Hub.
| `EXTENSION_TYPE` | Specifies whether the extension installed from the Docker PHP images, the PECL repository, or using an installation script. Valid values: `EXTENSION_TYPE_CORE`, `EXTENSION_TYPE_PECL`, or `EXTENSION_TYPE_INSTALLATION_SCRIPT`<br> For details on core and PECL extensions, see [How to install more PHP extensions][PHP, Docker Official Images] in Docker Hub.
`EXTENSION_OS_DEPENDENCIES` | For PHP core or PECL extensions, specifies Linux package dependencies. These packages install in the order listed before installing the extension.
`EXTENSION_CONFIGURE_OPTIONS` | For PHP core extensions, specifies any configuration options to apply when Docker configures the PHP extension using the `docker-php-ext-configure` command.  See the _PHP Core Extensions_ section on the [PHP, Docker Official Images] page in Docker Hub.

> `EXTENSION_PACKAGE_NAME` | Specifies the extension package name. If this parameter is specified, then the value is used to generate the installation command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`EXTENSION_PACKAGE_NAME` | Specifies the extension package name. This value is used to generate the installation command.
```

Just cutting fluff. Although, if there is a big difference, it may be interesting to know what happens if one does not specify a name. Does that mean the installation command is not generated?

`EXTENSION_INSTALLATION_SCRIPT` | For extension type `EXTENSION_TYPE_INSTALLATION_SCRIPT`, specifies the Bash script to install the extension.

#### Example: Core extension configuration

The following example shows the configuration for adding the PHP core extension `gd` in the `ExtensionResolver.php` file.

```php?start_inline=1
public static function getConfig(): array
...

>          'gd' => [

Reviewer: There is a lot of white space here. If it is just an excerpt, would the formatting matter for the sake of seeing a more compact view without scroll? Would they want to copy this example code and insert it somewhere exactly with all that indentation?

Author: I corrected the indention on first example. These example are copied directly from the ExtensionResolver.php file, so yes, they can just copy and paste and edit based on the extension they need to add.

1. Test the extension by specifying the [Docker build sources].

### PHP extension configuration reference

Use the following attributes to specify the PHP extension configuration in the `getConfig` method located in the [ExtensionResolver.php] file. The configuration you specify depends the extension installation method: from the official Docker PHP images, from the PECL repository, or using an installation script.

| Configuration option | Description
| -------------------- | ------------
| PHP version constraint | Specifies the extension versions to install. If different versions have different installation requirements, you must add the configuration for each version.

> <<<<<<< HEAD
> | `EXTENSION_TYPE_CORE` | Extension that can be installed from a `docker-php-source` image. See **PHP Core extensions** in the _How to install more PHP extensions_ section of the [PHP, Docker Official Images] page in Docker Hub.
> =======
> | `EXTENSION_TYPE_CORE` | Extension that can be installed from a `docker-php-source` image. See [PHP, Docker Official Images] in Docker Hub.
> >>>>>>> 8726e1a4f3f17741ac6b081dce77220a57576249

Author: ```suggestion
| `EXTENSION_TYPE_CORE` | Extension that can be installed from a `docker-php-source` image. See **PHP Core extensions** in the _How to install more PHP extensions_ section of the [PHP, Docker Official Images] page in Docker Hub.
```

=======
| `EXTENSION_TYPE_CORE` | Extension that can be installed from a `docker-php-source` image. See [PHP, Docker Official Images] in Docker Hub.
>>>>>>> 8726e1a4f3f17741ac6b081dce77220a57576249
| `EXTENSION_TYPE_PECL` | Extensions that can be installed from the [PECL] repository. See **PECL extensions** in the _How to install more PHP extensions_ section of the [PHP, Docker Official Images] page in Docker Hub.
| `EXTENSION_TYPE_INSTALLATION_SCRIPT` | For extensions that install using a command sequence. See the _Other extensions_ section on the [PHP, Docker Official Images] page in Docker Hub.
| `EXTENSION_TYPE` | Specifies whether the extension installed from the Docker PHP images, the PECL repository, or using an installation script. Valid values: `EXTENSION_TYPE_CORE`, `EXTENSION_TYPE_PECL`, or `EXTENSION_TYPE_INSTALLATION_SCRIPT`<br> For details on core and PECL extensions, see [How to install more PHP extensions][PHP, Docker Official Images] in Docker Hub.
`EXTENSION_OS_DEPENDENCIES` | For PHP core or PECL extensions, specifies Linux package dependencies. These packages install in the order listed before installing the extension.

> <<<<<<< HEAD
> `EXTENSION_CONFIGURE_OPTIONS` | For PHP core extensions, specifies any configuration options to apply when Docker configures the PHP extension using the `docker-php-ext-configure` command.  See **PHP Core extensions** in the _How to install more PHP extensions_ section of the [PHP, Docker Official Images] page in Docker Hub.
> =======
> `EXTENSION_CONFIGURE_OPTIONS` | For PHP core extensions, specifies any configuration options to apply when Docker configures the PHP extension using the `docker-php-ext-configure` command.  See the _PHP Core Extensions_ section on the [PHP, Docker Official Images] page in Docker Hub.
> >>>>>>> 8726e1a4f3f17741ac6b081dce77220a57576249

Author: ```suggestion
`EXTENSION_CONFIGURE_OPTIONS` | For PHP core extensions, specifies any configuration options to apply when Docker configures the PHP extension using the `docker-php-ext-configure` command.  See **PHP Core extensions** in the _How to install more PHP extensions_ section of the [PHP, Docker Official Images] page in Docker Hub.
```
